README.md, before:

# FuelSync Hub

This project contains the database schema and services for FuelSync Hub. Development uses a Postgres container managed via Docker Compose.

## Running the Dev Database

Use the helper scripts in `scripts/` to start or stop the database:

```bash
./scripts/start-dev-db.sh   # start container in background
./scripts/stop-dev-db.sh    # stop the container
```

The scripts invoke `docker-compose` and expect environment variables from `.env.development` when `NODE_ENV=development`.

To verify environment loading, run:

```bash
NODE_ENV=development npx ts-node scripts/check-env.ts
```

This prints the active environment and database user, confirming `.env.development` was loaded.


## API Documentation

Full API endpoints are documented in [docs/openapi.yaml](docs/openapi.yaml). After starting the server, visit `http://localhost:3000/api/docs` for an interactive Swagger UI. All routes are versioned under `/v1`.

### Running Tests

```bash
npm run test
```

Tests include DB pool config, versioned routes, and error handling.

If Jest reports `Skipping tests: unable to provision test DB`, ensure PostgreSQL
is installed or start the Docker database with `./scripts/start-dev-db.sh` and
run the tests again. As a fallback, install and start Postgres manually:

```bash
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y postgresql
sudo service postgresql start
sudo -u postgres psql -c "ALTER USER postgres PASSWORD 'postgres';"
```

## Additional Documentation

- [SERVER_README.md](SERVER_README.md) – how to start the API server and run quick login tests
- [DB_AUTH_TROUBLESHOOTING.md](DB_AUTH_TROUBLESHOOTING.md) – resolving database login issues
- [docs/SCRIPTS_GUIDE.md](docs/SCRIPTS_GUIDE.md) – overview of helper scripts
- [docs/LOCAL_DEV_SETUP.md](docs/LOCAL_DEV_SETUP.md) – create your own Postgres database without Docker
- [docs/AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md](docs/AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md) – production database setup on Azure
- [docs/AZURE_DEV_SETUP.md](docs/AZURE_DEV_SETUP.md) – connect a local server to an Azure database

## Deploying to Azure

For production deployments, follow the steps in [AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md](docs/AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md). Developers using an Azure database can also consult [AZURE_DEV_SETUP.md](docs/AZURE_DEV_SETUP.md) for local configuration.

After provisioning the database, run:

```bash
npm run setup-azure-db
```

This script creates all tables and loads the seed data.

Commit message:

docs: add troubleshooting guide for failed DB setup

README.md, after:

# FuelSync Hub

This project contains the database schema and services for FuelSync Hub. Development uses a Postgres container managed via Docker Compose.

## Running the Dev Database

Use the helper scripts in `scripts/` to start or stop the database:

```bash
./scripts/start-dev-db.sh   # start container in background
./scripts/stop-dev-db.sh    # stop the container
```

The scripts invoke `docker-compose` and expect environment variables from `.env.development` when `NODE_ENV=development`.

To verify environment loading, run:

```bash
NODE_ENV=development npx ts-node scripts/check-env.ts
```

This prints the active environment and database user, confirming `.env.development` was loaded.


## API Documentation

Full API endpoints are documented in [docs/openapi.yaml](docs/openapi.yaml). After starting the server, visit `http://localhost:3000/api/docs` for an interactive Swagger UI. All routes are versioned under `/v1`.

### Running Tests

```bash
npm run test
```

Tests include DB pool config, versioned routes, and error handling.

If Jest reports `Skipping tests: unable to provision test DB`, ensure PostgreSQL
is installed or start the Docker database with `./scripts/start-dev-db.sh` and
run the tests again. As a fallback, install and start Postgres manually or see
[TROUBLESHOOTING.md](docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md):

```bash
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y postgresql
sudo service postgresql start
sudo -u postgres psql -c "ALTER USER postgres PASSWORD 'postgres';"
```

## Additional Documentation

- [SERVER_README.md](SERVER_README.md) – how to start the API server and run quick login tests
- [DB_AUTH_TROUBLESHOOTING.md](DB_AUTH_TROUBLESHOOTING.md) – resolving database login issues
- [docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md](docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md) – tips if the test database fails to initialize
- [docs/SCRIPTS_GUIDE.md](docs/SCRIPTS_GUIDE.md) – overview of helper scripts
- [docs/LOCAL_DEV_SETUP.md](docs/LOCAL_DEV_SETUP.md) – create your own Postgres database without Docker
- [docs/AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md](docs/AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md) – production database setup on Azure
- [docs/AZURE_DEV_SETUP.md](docs/AZURE_DEV_SETUP.md) – connect a local server to an Azure database

## Deploying to Azure

For production deployments, follow the steps in [AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md](docs/AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md). Developers using an Azure database can also consult [AZURE_DEV_SETUP.md](docs/AZURE_DEV_SETUP.md) for local configuration.

After provisioning the database, run:

```bash
npm run setup-azure-db
```

This script creates all tables and loads the seed data.
